=========================
Jupyterhub privacy notice
=========================

.. seealso::

   The :doc:`main JupyterHub for Teaching page <jupyterhub>`.

Useful information
==================

The Aalto JupyterHub for Teaching is a service for light computation
including teaching purposes.  It facilitates releasing, collecting,
and grading of assignments by other course instructors.  Data is
processed under agreement to provide you with light computational
services.

Data is stored of any one who chooses to use the service.  There are
two types of data: (A) Administrative metadata consists of username,
information about currently running servers, and technical logging
information. and (B) the user's own data stored on drives, of which
they are the controller.


Our responsibility for (B) data is limited to providing you access or
removing it should you be no longer contactable (for the purposes of
data processing, we are a processor, not controller).  Our
responsibility for data submitted to courses as part of nbgrader
functionality is limited to providing it to those responsible for the
course so they can answer any requests you may have, and deleting it
should those responsible for the course become unavailable.  Those
responsible for the course are the controller for assignments you
submit.  We do not access the contents of data without your explicit
permission, but may look at file metadata in order to solve problems
and operate the system.  (B) Data is not used for any other purpose.

Your (B) data is stored for as long as you request.  Data may be
deleted should you not use the service for one year, or if you fail to
respond to service announcements saying otherwise.

Your (A) data consists of your Aalto username along with technical
information about currently running servers and past usage.  All other
account information is only stored by Aalto itself, and our local copy
of administrative metadata is removed several months after last login.

Non-identifiable statistics about use of this service may be shared
for any purpose.


Less useful information
=======================

The controller of the administrative metadata is Aalto University
Computer Science IT, which can be reached at guru at cs dot aalto.fi

You have the right to request rectification or erasure of your data.
However, for your own (B) data, you are the controller and you must do
this yourself, as we do not access it.  Administrative metadata (A) is
kept for its duration because it is technical logs necessary for us to
offer the service to you.  Should you notice an error it the service,
please contact us.

Access to (B) data is only via Aalto account, and your data is
inaccessible and eventually removed once your Aalto account is no
longer valid.

The Aalto data protection office can be reached at dpo at aalto.fi.
The Finnish data protection authorities can be reached at
https://tietosuoja.fi/.  You may make a complaint to either of these
authorities.
