Jupyter Workshop, 8 March 2019
==============================

Jupyter notebooks are a web-based system for interactive computing,
and the :doc:`Aalto Juptyerhub <../aalto/jupyterhub>`
(https://jupyter.cs.aalto.fi) extends this with some :doc:`features
useful for teaching <../aalto/jupyterhub-instructors/index>`.

This workshop is to introduce the Aalto community to the Aalto
JupyterHubs and how they can be used for teaching (including
independent projects) and research.  The workshop has the goals of
introducing new users to Jupyter, providing advice on implementation
in courses, and guiding future development.  The main audience is
teachers, but any interested people are welcome to attend, but
research uses will be discussed too.


Date/time: 2019-03-08, 10:00-12:00

Location: T4, CS building.

Registration: none, just show up.


Program
-------

The first hour will be a general introduction about Jupyter and our
services (good for those determining if this is of any use and
strategy) the second half will be focused on practical examples and
discussion for those who want to actively use (sharing knowledge among
those who are or will use it).


* 10:00-10:15: **Intro to Aalto JupyterHub**, Joakim Järvinen

  * Strategic benefits of JupyterHub and its use in Machine Learning
    Basic Principles 2018

* 10:15-10:20: **The Aalto A+ learning management system**, Jaakko Kantojärvi

  * What the A+ system is and how it relates (and could relate to) to
    JupyterHub.

* 10:20-10:35: **Aalto JupyterHub details and ecosystem**, Richard Darst

  * Background, where we are going, and primary limitations.

* 10:35-10:50: **Demos of Data Science and
  Kernel Methods notebooks in courses**, Petri Jehkonen and Eric Bach
* Discussion/break: 10 min

* *(end of first half, begin details half for those who want to stay)*
* 11:00-11:20: **From start to Jupyter: demo of a full course
  setup**, Richard Darst

  * Requesting a course, tracking files, managing students, grading,
    sharing files, integration with other services, etc.

* 11:20-???: **Notebook construction for autograding**, Alexander Ilin
  and Joakim Järvinen

  * Making notebooks for autograding is quite challenging.  Learn how
    to do it well.

* Discussion and planning for the future


About the Aalto JupyterHubs
---------------------------

`Jupyter <https://jupyter.org>`__ is an interactive computing
ecosystem.  It is most known for the Jupyter (formerly IPython)
notebooks, which combine code, documentation, and output together in a
usable form.  JupyterHub provides multiuser access over the web: Aalto
provides two, :doc:`one for all Aalto users, in particular students
and with support for courses <../aalto/jupyterhub>` and :doc:`one for
research, as part of Triton <../triton/apps/jupyter>`.


See also
--------

The `Jupyter4edu <https://jupyter4edu.github.io/jupyter-edu-book/>`__
book might be the best external known resource so far.
